A á pa apa.;He hides the bag.
Apā á pek.;The taro is spoiled.
Apā á pek.;Taro is raw.
A á si mbaˈa apa.;He is weaving the bag.
Apā á pek.;The taro has gone bad.
Meŋ á lo ale zá.;I bit my tongue.
Ŋgi zek é lēgʉ̄ŋ ńtō.;Our riparian field is near the bridge.
Meŋ á si ŋgipɛ apa zá.;I'm hanging my bag on my shoulder.
Meŋ á yip ŋ̄gó egá.;I'm hanging my bag on my shoulder.
Meŋ á feŋ ndaŋ a ntaŋ.;I kept the oil box at the store.
Ŋgik ga á nzókó, ńzéŋɛ́ azēŋ.;My older brother spent the whole day dancing only the azeŋ.
Ŋkʉŋŋ̄fák á kaŋ aleŋɛ ndeŋ.;Kenfack chose the banbou chair.
Mɛŋka séŋ, é ḿbiŋ ndo.;There are many nests in the forest.
Afaŋ á paŋ.;The palm nut is ripe.
Meŋ á neŋ āsáŋá kaŋ.;I trod on the tail of the squirrel.
Mmá yi á ndā mésāŋ ńzap.;His mother prepared the couscous with the vegetable sauce.
Maá yi á ndáa mesāŋ ńzap.;His mother only prepared couscous with vegetable sauce.
A á nnáŋ á ésī.;He sat down.
Mesāŋ mbék.;The couscous has spoiled.
Mesaŋ mbēk é ŋ́gyā a?;Are there uncooked couscous at home?
A á mvéŋ á lépil mmók.;He agreed to put out the fire.
A á si ɲaka mɛ wɔp.;He is trying their mother.
A á si esaŋa ŋkap zi.;He is counting his money.
Mɔˈɔ́ yi á ŋgók tɛ ŋŋāŋá.;Her father worked to the point of losing weight.
Nnū é ńte tuŋ.;The snake is in the basket.
Mbeŋ é si nduu.;It is causing rain.
Apu zá á si nduu.;My hand is swelling.
ŋkuŋkum é si ntupɔ levem tsa.;Cassava couscous upsets my stomach.
Ndu wék é ńdu njuŋ.;Our backwater has a lot of firewood.
ŋgap á nu mbo n̄nú.;The hen drinks the snake's eggs.
Nu lē ḿbāp mékō tɛ zó.;The sun has dried the beans.
Kúna á lo efe yí.;The pig has bitten its tibia.
Ndɔŋmɔ̄ pɔ́ esó yi é zók á ńdu nzɔ̄pɔ́.;Dongmo and his friend spent the whole day singing in the backwater.
Nzém é séŋ, pɔ́ gʉɔ mé nzɔ́k mmók.;At nightfall, they left to warm up.
Esó wu á si nnɔŋɔ ŋgɔ̄.;Your friend is sick.
Efok wu ke tú esī ézɔ̄.;Your co-wife sang the song esī yesterday.
A naŋá ánɛ tɔ, ńtɔ̄ŋtɛ́ létuúŋ etsí, mé letɔ́ŋ ŋ́gāp, ńnɔŋ ntɔ́ŋɔ́ léŋwɛ̄.;He was sitting on a stone, wiping his ear with a feather, whistling.
Efɔ á si esaˈa alāˈ.;The chief governs the village.
Lekāk e zá ánɔˈ eyáˈa.;There is a party today at the chiefdom.
ŋkuˈ e zá ánɔˈ tiˈ.;There is a lot of sugar cane at the chiefdom.
Letɔ́ŋ ŋ́gūˈ é sāk tiˈ.;The feather of ŋgú is very long.
Mɔˈɔ́ ndáˈ á ŋkāˈ éyāˈa lɛɛ́?;Did the father spend the night in his field?
Mɔˈɔ́ si mbaˈa túŋ.;The father is braiding the basket.
A á kɔˈ a ŋkaˈ, ŋ́gōk afaˈ, ḿbiŋ nnɔ̄ŋ éfāˈá mésāŋ mi mɛ́ ŋgɔ̄ˈ.;He came back from the field of work and was looking for the couscous that we had crushed.
ŋgém mɔˈɔ́ wu á si ŋgɔɔ.;Your father's mother-in-law is sick.
ŋgap á taˈ ŋ̄gɔ́ŋ ána wyɔ̄, tɛ mīi.;The hen has completely disturbed the furrow there.
Gó á ŋgɔ̄ ŋ́gap za, ánɛ menu legēm.;The crow caught my hen at 10 a.m.
ŋgím é ke māk etsō á ŋ́kāˈ.;The criquest have finished the provisions of the field.
ŋgaŋ ālúŋ é kaŋ ŋgɔ́ŋ ána wyɔ̄.;The yam root occupied the whole furrow there.
Ndem á si ŋgɔ ndaˈ n̄tsa mezeŋɛ.;God is the only comforter.
Nnū é ntsók á ŋiŋ á lépfō pek.;The snake bit a person in our neighborhood.